serves two purposes: enhancing decision accuracy
by jointly training the model to generate decisions
and explanations, and improving user trust by pro-
viding the reasoning in PaSa application.
To optimize training efficiency for the Crawler,
the decision token is presented before the ratio-
nale, allowing the Selector to act as a single-token
reward model during the Crawler training. Addi-
tionally, the token probability of the decision token
can be used to rank search results. At last, as shown
in Table 6, the order of the decision and rationale
does not affect the Selector’s performance.
We perform imitation learning to optimize the
Selector. See Appendix E for training data collec-
tion and training details.
5 Experiments
5.1 Experimental Setting
We sequentially trained the Selector and Crawler,
both based on the Qwen2.5-7b (Yang et al., 2024),
to develop the final agent, referred to as PaSa-7b.
Selector The Selector was fine-tuned using the
training dataset described in Appendix E. We con-
ducted supervised fine-tuning for one epoch with
a learning rate of 1e-5 and a batch size of 4. The
training runs on 8 NVIDIA-H100 GPUs.
Crawler The training process involves two
stages. First, we perform imitation learning for
1 epoch on 12,989 training data with a learning
rate of 1e-5 and batch size of 4 per device, using
8 NVIDIA H100 GPUs. In the second stage, we
apply PPO training. To ensure stability, we first
freeze the policy model and train the value model,
followed by co-training both the policy and value
models. The hyperparameters used during the train-
ing process are listed in Table 12 in Appendix D.2.
During imitation learning, the model encoun-
ters 5,000 queries, while during the RL training
phase, the model processes a total of 16,000 queries.
For more details please refer to Appendix D.1 for
the imitation learning data construction and Ap-
pendix D.2 for the PPO training data sampling.
Implementation of [Search] The LLM predicts
a query based on the context. Then the agent calls
Google7 with the parameters site:arxiv.org and
before:query_date, restricting search results by
source and publication time.
7Accessed via the Google Search API provided by https:
//serper.dev.
Paper Management We developed a database to
manage and restore research papers. PaSa retrieves
paper information from the database. If no match-
ing record is found, we use ar5iv8 to obtain the full
paper content, including citations, and then parse
this data and store it in the database.
5.2 Baselines and Evaluation
We evaluate our paper search agent on both the test
set of AutoScholarQuery and RealScholarQuery.
We compare PaSa-7b against the following base-
lines:
• Google. We use Google to search the query
directly, with the same parameter settings in
Section 5.1.
• Google Scholar. Queries are submitted di-
rectly to Google Scholar7, with the same pa-
rameter settings in Section 5.1.
• Google with GPT-4o. We first employ GPT-
4o to paraphrase the scholar query. The para-
phrased query is then searched on Google.
• ChatGPT. We submit scholar query to Chat-
GPT9, powered by search-enabled GPT-4o.
• GPT-o1. Prompt GPT-o1 to process the
scholar query. Note that it does not have ac-
cess to external search tools.
• PaSa-GPT-4o. Implement PaSa as illustrated
in Figure 1 by prompting GPT-4o. It can per-
form multiple searches, paper reading, and
citation network crawling.
We carefully designed prompts for all baselines
and they are shown in Appendix H.2. All baselines,
except PaSa-GPT-4o, represent the best-known
scholar search methods. These comparisons high-
light the effectiveness of our agentic approach. The
comparison with PaSa-GPT-4o isolates the impact
of RL training.
As shown in Figure 2, the crawling process of
PaSa can be visualized as a paper tree. In practice,
considering the computational expense, we limit
the Crawler’s exploration depth to three for both
PaSa-7b and PaSa-GPT-4o.
For Google-based baselines, we evaluate recall
using Recall@20, Recall@50, and Recall@100
metrics for the top-20, top-50, and top-100 search
8https://ar5iv.org/
9https://chatgpt.com
11669