Proceedings of the 63rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (V olume 1: Long Papers) , pages 11663–11679
July 27 - August 1, 2025 ©2025 Association for Computational Linguistics
PaSa: An LLM Agent for Comprehensive Academic Paper Search
Yichen He∗1 Guanhua Huang∗1 Peiyuan Feng1 Yuan Lin†1
Yuchen Zhang1 Hang Li1 Weinan E2
1ByteDance Seed 2Peking University
{hyc,huangguanhua,fpy,linyuan.0}@bytedance.com,
{zhangyuchen.zyc,lihang.lh}@bytedance.com, weinan@math.pku.edu.cn
Abstract
We introduce PaSa, an advanced Paper Search
agent powered by large language models. PaSa
can autonomously make a series of decisions,
including invoking search tools, reading pa-
pers, and selecting relevant references, to ul-
timately obtain comprehensive and accurate
results for complex scholar queries. We opti-
mize PaSa using reinforcement learning with
a synthetic dataset, AutoScholarQuery, which
includes 35k fine-grained academic queries and
corresponding papers sourced from top-tier AI
conference publications. Additionally, we de-
velop RealScholarQuery, a benchmark collect-
ing real-world academic queries to assess PaSa
performance in more realistic scenarios. De-
spite being trained on synthetic data, PaSa sig-
nificantly outperforms existing baselines on
RealScholarQuery, including Google, Google
Scholar, Google with GPT-4o for paraphrased
queries, ChatGPT (search-enabled GPT-4o),
GPT-o1, and PaSa-GPT-4o (PaSa implemented
by prompting GPT-4o). Notably, PaSa-7B sur-
passes the best Google-based baseline, Google
with GPT-4o, by 37.78% in recall@20 and
39.90% in recall@50, and exceeds PaSa-GPT-
4o by 30.36% in recall and 4.25% in preci-
sion. Model, datasets, and code are available at
https://github.com/bytedance/pasa.
Demo: https://pasa-agent.ai
1 Introduction
Academic paper search lies at the core of research
yet represents a particularly challenging informa-
tion retrieval task. It requires long-tail special-
ized knowledge, comprehensive survey-level cover-
age, and the ability to address fine-grained queries.
For instance, consider the query: "Which stud-
ies have focused on non-stationary reinforcement
∗Equal contribution.
†Corresponding author.
learning using value-based methods, specifically
UCB-based algorithms?" While widely used aca-
demic search systems like Google Scholar are effec-
tive for general queries, they often fall short when
addressing these complex queries (Gusenbauer and
Haddaway, 2020). Consequently, researchers fre-
quently spend substantial time conducting litera-
ture surveys (Kingsley et al., 2011; Gusenbauer
and Haddaway, 2021).
The advancements in large language models
(LLMs) (OpenAI, 2023; Anthropic, 2024; Gemini,
2023; Yang et al., 2024) have inspired numerous
studies leveraging LLMs to enhance information
retrieval, particularly by refining or reformulating
search queries to improve retrieval quality (Alaofi
et al., 2023; Li et al., 2023; Ma et al., 2023; Peng
et al., 2024). In academic search, however, the
process goes beyond simple retrieval. Human re-
searchers not only use search tools, but also engage
in deeper activities, such as reading relevant papers
and checking citations, to perform comprehensive
and accurate literature surveys.
In this paper, we introduce PaSa, a novel paper
search agent designed to mimic human behavior
for comprehensive and accurate academic paper
searches. As illustrated in Figure 1, PaSa con-
sists of two LLM agents: the Crawler and the Se-
lector. For a given user query, the Crawler can
autonomously collect relevant papers by utilizing
search tools or extracting citations from the current
paper, which are then added to a growing paper
queue. The Crawler iteratively processes each pa-
per in the paper queue, navigating citation networks
to discover increasingly relevant papers. The Selec-
tor carefully reads each paper in the paper queue to
determine whether it meets the requirements of the
user query. We optimize PaSa within the AGILE, a
reinforcement learning (RL) framework for LLM
agents (Feng et al., 2024).
11663